Cancer progresses in
severity through a series of stages.
Stage zero
is when the cancer is only in the cells
where the cancer has started,
with no spread to surrounding tissue.
When the cancer grows in size
but remains in the same
tissue layer,
it is classified as stage one.
At this point, it can be called a tumor.
In stage two, the tumor has grown in size
and penetrates
into other layers of surrounding tissue.
The cancer may have moved into local lymph
nodes.
By stage three,
the tumor is larger than in stage two,
has penetrated deeper into tissues,
and even to beyond the normal
boundary of the organ.
The tumor can reach
regional and distal lymph nodes.
Finally, stage four
the tumor becomes metastatic,
meaning cancer cells
have entered the blood or lymph, circulate
throughout the body and colonize sites
distant from the original site.
The higher
the stage, the more severe the cancer.